# Baking Cookies

## Description

For this assignment, we created a 4-minute “how-to” video piece that is based on originally filmed content. The overall concept and theme of the video are to give viewers an idea of how to make cookies, with step-by-step instructions, and provide them with a checklist of the ingredients. The color scheme chosen is also representative of baking, with visuals that support that as well. The experience we’re striving to create is one that is eye-catching and engaging for the viewers such that they would finish the video, get up and make their own cookies right after.

## Process

The first thing we did before brainstorming ideas for the content of the video was discussing the different options that we have. We all agreed that we would do option 3, which is a “How to...” video. It was a bit difficult for us to come up with ideas that would fit in 3 steps, but we decided on making a “How to” make cookies video, where the first step is preparing the dough, the second is setting up on the tray and baking, and the third one is eating.

We then met in one of the lounges to bake and film for a couple of hours, as the cookies need to be completed in one day. We got all the ingredients and set up a phone holder on the counter to film most of the video as top view. We left the recording running most of the time as we agreed that it would be the better option and we can edit/cut whatever we need to. Throughout, we sometimes recorded from different angles to decide on what would be the most engaging for the audience when the time for editing comes. We finished the baking and recorded shorts at the end for the montage of the final product. We also thought about aspects that we want to include in the editing while we were filming so that we don’t regret it after.

The next thing we did was the movie editing, which was done on Adobe Premiere Pro. We airdropped all of the videos to one device and went ahead with filtering to see which ones are not needed and deleted them. Next, we added the videos in chronological order on the application and started editing. Initially, the video was around 30 minutes long, and so we cut out parts that weren’t needed, prioritized or chose shots that fit better, and played around with the speeds. We also tried to incorporate different angles of the shots within the specific activities (ex. mixing, oven, eating) to avoid repetitiveness and boredom of the viewer. All of the videos were trimmed to be precise, zoomed in/out when necessary, and stabilized if required. We also chose to reverse a couple of videos, such as displaying the ingredients in the beginning and taking the cookies at the end, as in reality these were filmed in the opposite way. We also felt that having short and quick stop animation was necessary to also avoid viewer boredom and to embrace various effects.

Next, we moved on to the audio which we decided to record the only after editing the video. It allowed us to estimate how many sentences can be said in between different shots. With video ready we started to write a script and ensure that the audio nicely matched visuals and feels well integrated. We decided to add refined comments and tips for baking which would make the storytelling component more engaging and informative. 

In order to elevate the professional feeling of our video we asked our friend with a shooting voice for help. We recorded audio with a professional microphone and edited it in the Premiere Pro. We have also decided to add a LoFi which would complement aesthetically visuals and the voice over.

Consequently, we started working on the website, deciding on a theme and brainstorming ideas for user interaction. Firstly, we decided to settle on a theme, we drew inspiration from the already existing cooking sites and decided to style our website with subtle and light colors. We wanted to the website to not only be a resource for the recipe but also a place for users to check if they have all the resources for the recipe, as such we implemented a ingredient checklist, everytime the user checks an element, the key value pair is stored in the browser local storage and restored on load. Not only that but we all implements interactable recipe steps so that when a user clicks on a step we jump to the respective section in the video.

## Reflection / Evaluation

We believe that our initial concept’s goals and expectations were met and fulfilled to a great extent in our final working version. One complication that we feared was messing up in the baking process or recording because reshooting was not going to be a feasible option since there will always be a possibility that we would have to start baking from the beginning to not ruin the flow of the video. Thankfully, this did not happen and the shooting went by smoothly.
